Changelog 159 (#138)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2021-11-08-changelog-159.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #159"
date: 2021-11-08 13:00:00 +0300
---

## New Features

* [#7798] Support [let else](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/3137-let-else.html) syntax available under `#![feature(let_else)]` feature gate

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-159/let_else" w="550px" %}

* [#7898] Provide completion of the [`rust-version`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#the-rust-version-field) field in the `[package]` table of the `Cargo.toml` manifest (by [@HTG-YT])

  <img src="/assets/posts/changelog-159/rust_version.png" alt="rust_version completion" width="550px">

> * [#7914] Use new name resolution for auto-import and out-of-scope completion. It supports auto-import of macros and significantly improves performance

Reviewer: Maybe something like
```suggestion
* [#7914] Use info calculated by new name resolution engine for `Import` quick-fix and completion of out-of-scope items. It brings:
    - Better processing of complex re-exports, including proper visibility handling
    - Auto-import for macros
    - Signifincant performance improvement
```

> * [#7914] Use new name resolution for auto-import and out-of-scope completion. It supports auto-import of macros and significantly improves performance

Reviewer: I think it's a most important feature of the release so let's move it at the first position

> * [#7914] Use new name resolution for auto-import and out-of-scope completion. It supports auto-import of macros and significantly improves performance

Reviewer: Also, let's add gif for auto-import of macro

> * [#7928] Enable `Unresolved reference` inspection for attribute macros if `org.rust.macros.proc` experimental feature is enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#7928] Enable `Unresolved reference` inspection for attribute macros if `org.rust.macros.proc` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features) is enabled
```

> * [#8029] Improve traits auto-import for methods

Reviewer: Let's merge this item and `#7914` since they are about the same things

    - Better processing of complex re-exports, including proper visibility handling
    - Significant performance improvement
    - Auto-import for macros

      {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-159/auto_import" w="550px" %}

* [#7798] Support [let else](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/3137-let-else.html) syntax

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-159/let_else" w="550px" %}

* [#7898] Provide completion of the [`rust-version`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/manifest.html#the-rust-version-field) field in the `[package]` table of the `Cargo.toml` manifest (by [@HTG-YT])

  <img src="/assets/posts/changelog-159/rust_version.png" alt="rust_version completion" width="550px">

* [#7928] Enable `Unresolved reference` inspection for attribute macros if `org.rust.macros.proc` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features) is enabled

## Performance Improvements

* [#7944] Slightly optimize `Find usages` for public items in binary crates

* [#7936] Slightly optimize memory consumption of name resolution internal structures

## Fixes

> * [#8033] Fix name resolution of explicit type-qualified associated types in type aliases (like `type Alias<T> = <T as Trait>::Item;`). This fixes type inference in [`hecs`](https://crates.io/crates/hecs) library

Reviewer: It's not only about `hecs` lib. Let's rephrase it somehow. `hecs` can be used as an example

* [#8025] Fix type inference for breaks out of the loop nested within expression blocks (by [@afetisov])

* [#8022] Fix expansion of procedural macros that contain `_` in the macro body

* [#8012] Improve work with generated sources provided via `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` [experimental feature](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-faq.html#experimental-features). Now the plugin doesn't pollute `Project Structure` view with entries for generated `out` directories. Also, the custom paths of target directories are also supported

* [#8006] Simplify negation of boolean literal (e.g. in `Invert if condition` intention)

> * [#8004] Fix code insight in [`diesel`](https://github.com/diesel-rs/diesel) project

Reviewer: Actually it's not about `diesel` project only. it's about parsing and `diesel` is just an example

> * [#7993] Consider that stdlib can't have proc macros

Reviewer: Quite unclear description from users point of view

Author: Will be something clarifying like `Stdlib uses many unstable built-in attributes that change frequently` work here?

Reviewer: Maybe "Don't try to detect procedural macros in stdlib (as a consequence don't try to expand them) to avoid attempts to expand unstable built-in attributes"?
What do you think?

Author: Sounds good
